###  Marker feedback for s1901700

> This  is a highly implementation-focused thesis, showcasing the successful  development of a non-trivial algorithm that converts audio into an image format. The mathematical introduction is excellent, as is the audio  demonstration of the editing effects. My only suggestion would be to  include a bit more comparison with existing commercial software to  further contextualize the work. Overall, this is a fantastic piece of  work—well done!

###  Marker feedback for s1901700

> This project further develops the concept initiated in the student's Part 1  project: namely, an approach to audio editing by manipulating the  spectrogram with existing graphical editing tools. The main new  contribution this year has been in the mathematics used to generate the  spectrogram from the raw audio: in place of the standard MDCT (a  variation on short term Fourier transform), the more sophisticated and  much more general 'Non Stationary Gabor Transform' (NSGT) has been used, allowing much more flexibility in the choice of (vertical) frequency  scale. Alongside other advantages, this allows for spectral images that  align better with human perception of sound and facilitate more precise  manipulation of important aspects of the sound.
>  
>  This is a highly original and ambitious project, perhaps bordering on  original publishable research. On a technical level, it has involved the assimilation of some complex and advanced mathematics, explained in  Chapter 2 of the dissertation. (An existing Python implementation was  used as a basis for generating the spectral data, but the student had to adapt this to his needs, as well as implementing the translations to  and from TIFF image formats.)  Another strength of the project is that  the design decisions have been deeply informed by considerations of  human perception and cognition - the student shows a deep interest in  the ways we perceive and conceptualize both auditory and visual  information. The project has been evaluated by means of a variety of  editing experiments - from the written dissertation it is hard to gauge  the success of these, and even the explanations supported by spectral  images seemed hard to follow in some cases. However, the basic message  that emerges is that given time and patience, good results can be  achieved with this approach, although further work would be required to  render the workflow more manageable - this is discussed in some depth  within the report.
>  
>  The dissertation is well structured, very rich in content, and mostly  well-written. A few sections here and there struck me as obscure or  unconvincing, but this is unsurprising given the complexity of what is  being described. The project might also have benefited from deeper  engagement with existing literature and previous approaches. Overall,  however, in terms of originality, technical competency and critical  reflection, the project is on a level to which only a small proportion  of our students could aspire, and I believe it is clearly deserving of a first-class mark.